.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii falconeer.fal.1
.\"
.TH falconeer.fal 1 "July 2007" "Falcon toolset" "Falcon User Manuals"
.SH NAME

falconeer.fal \- Falcon skeleton module startup configurator script

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B falconeer.fal \-n moduleName [options]

.SH DESCRIPTION

The
.B falconeer.fal
script configures a directory containing the Falcon Skeleton Module
so that it becomes ready for compilation under all the systems
supported by Falcon.

Although not mandatory, a developer willing to write native modules
for Falcon may use this facility to speed up the startup phase and
begin with an already compilable module.

The configuration consists in the renaming of the module files into
the module name specified in the command line, and in the update of
the makefiles and project files provided for the various development
platform Falcon can be built on.

Other than the project name, the script allows one to configure other
options, that will affect the template variables that will be
substituted in the modified files.

Once configured and built, the skeleton module provides already a
.B skeleton()
symbol that is exported to the VM, and a service that exports that
function (defined in the fskelmod_mod.cpp file) to C++ applications.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP \-a\ <author>
Specifies the author name.

.IP \-c\ "<copyright\ owner>"
Indicates the copyright owner, if different from the author, to be
set on the copyright line, right beside the copyright year.

.IP \-d\ <Description>
Sets a brief description of the project.

.IP \-l\ <File>
Loads a license plate (a long statement indicating the
license under which the files are distributed) from a template
file. If not given, the standard FPLL license plate is applied
to the generated files.

.IP \-n\ <name>
Sets the (short) name of the project. Files will be renamed
accordingly to this value, and also the final module name will
be configured using this setting.

.IP \-p\ <name>
Sets the main project hood under which the file is created.
Usually, modules are part of wider projects, or can be
distributed as sets. If not set, the text
"The Falcon Programming Language" will be used instead.

.SH BUGS
The file
.B version.h
cannot currently be properly configured. Edit it by hand.

.SH NOTES
On some systems, falconeer.fal script can be "proxied" with a falconeer
pseudo command (shell script, batch file and so on).

.SH AUTHOR

Giancarlo Niccolai <gc@falconpl.org>

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR falcon (1)

.SH LICENSE
This document is released under the "GNU Free Documentation License, version 1.2".
On Debian systems, the complete text of the Free Documentation License, version 1.2,
can be found in /usr/share/common\-licenses/.

