.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii faldisass.1
.\"
.TH faldissass 1 "April 2007" "Falcon toolset" "Falcon User Manuals"
.SH NAME

faldissass \- The Falcon disassembler

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B faldissass [options]
.I module_file.fam

.SH DESCRIPTION

The
.B faldissass
command line tool disassembles a compiled .fam Falcon module.
The output human\-readable Falcon Virtual Machine assembly is
sent to the standard output.

The tool has mainly two working modes. The standard mode
procues an assembly dump containing the PC counter address
that will be associated with each instruction in the VM. This
allows to see exactly on which VM instruction an error
was raised (as the PC at error raisal is always shown in
error dumps), or to debug the VM by following the PC register
in step\-by\-step mode.

The isomorphic mode creates a compilable assembly source that
can the be feed into the falcon assembler to obtain a compiled
module. In example, this can be used for VM level hand\-made
finetuning optimizations.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP \-d
Dump the dependency table (list of load directives).

.IP \-h
Show version and a short help.

.IP \-i
Create an isomorphic version of the original assembly.

.IP \-l
add line informations.

.IP \-s
Dump the string table.

.IP \-S
Write the strings inline instead of using #strid

.IP \-y
Dump the symbol table.

.SH FILES

.I /usr/lib/libfalcon_engine.so
.RS
Default location of the Falcon Engine loadable module.
.RE


.SH AUTHOR

Giancarlo Niccolai <gc@falconpl.org>

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR falcon (1)
.BR falrun (1)

.SH LICENSE
This document is released under the "GNU Free Documentation License, version 1.2".
On Debian systems, the complete text of the Free Documentation License, version 1.2,
can be found in /usr/share/common\-licenses/.

