.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii falrun.1
.\"
.TH flcrun 1 "April 2007" "Falcon toolset" "Falcon User Manuals"
.SH NAME

flcrun \- The Falcon command line execution tool

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B falrun [options] [main_script] [script_options]

.SH DESCRIPTION

The
.B falrun
command line tool is a subset of the
.BR falcon(1)
command line interpreter which only executes
pre\-compiled falcon scripts in ".fam" module
files. This is meant to launch Falcon based
application which were compiled on a different
system, and whose source is not shipped.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP \-e\ <enc>
Set given encoding as default for VM I/O. Unless the scripts
select a different I/O encoding, the streams that are provided
to the falcon VM (like the output stream for printf) are encoded
using the given ISO encoding. This overrides the default encoding
that is detected by reading the environment settings. In example,
if your system uses iso\-8859\-1 encoding by default, but you want
your script to read and write utf\-8 files, use the option
.B	\-e\ utf\-8

.IP \-h\ or\ \-?
Prints a brief help on stdout and exits.
.IP \-L\ <path>
Changes the default load path. This overrides both the internal
built in settings and the contents of environment variable
FALCON_LOAD_PATH. Each directory in the path should be separated
by ";" and use forward slashes, like this:

.B		falrun \-L "./;/usr/share/falcon_mod;./myapp"

.IP \-p\ <module>
Preloads the given module as if it were loaded by the main script.
.IP \-P
Ignore default load paths and uses only the paths set via the \-L switch.
.IP \-v
Prints copyright notice and version and exits.

.SH FILES

.I /usr/lib/libfalcon_engine.so
.RS
Default location of the Falcon Engine loadable module.
.RE

.I /usr/lib/falcon
.RS
Default directory containing Falcon binary modules.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT

.IP FALCON_LOAD_PATH
Default search path for modules loaded by the scripts.

.IP FALCON_SRC_ENCODING
Default encoding for the source scripts loaded by falcon (when
different from the system default).

.IP FALCON_VM_ENCODING
Default encoding for the VM I/O streams (when different
from system default).


.SH AUTHOR

Giancarlo Niccolai <gc@falconpl.org>

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR falcon (1)
.BR faldisass (1)

.SH LICENSE
This document is released under the "GNU Free Documentation License, version 1.2".
On Debian systems, the complete text of the Free Documentation License, version 1.2,
can be found in /usr/share/common\-licenses/.

